# Project Synopsis

Although the presence of pharmaceuticals in the environment has been occurring for decades, only recently has there been an effort to closely monitor the concentrations of these pollutants in the marine environment (Fernandes et al. 2021). NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs), such as ibuprofen, are among the many studied pharmaceuticals for potential risk to marine organisms (Blasco & Trombini 2023). Additionally, the rise of temperature due to climate change is heavily researched for concern to marine organism physiology. Despite the numerous research done on the effects of either elevated temperatures or ibuprofen individually, little has been done to analyze the combined effects of these two environmental factors on crab physiology. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to evaluate the physiological response of H. oregonensis to the combined effects of elevated water temperatures and ibuprofen exposure in hemolymph glucose levels and oxygen consumption rates. 

We hypothesized that with increasing temperature and ibuprofen doses, glucose levels would decrease and the respiration would increase. The treatments of this study are as follows: 1) high temperature – no dose, 2) high temperature – low dose, 3) high temperature – high dose, 4) ambient temperature – no dose (the control), 5) ambient temperature – low dose, and 6) ambient temperature – high dose. The high temperature was set at 27℃ and ambient temperature was set at 13℃. The high ibuprofen dose was set at 31.25 μg/L and the low ibuprofen dose was set at 6.25 μg/L. To assess the response, weekly resazurin assays at 30, 60, and 90 minute intervals were used to analyze oxygen consumption rates. On the other hand, hemolymph was extracted at the end of the experiment to quantify glucose levels. Main findings of the experiment showed that after 2 weeks of being exposed to high temperatures, all high temperature treatments (doses and no doses) had a large decrease in oxygen consumption rates, whereas the ambient treatments slightly varied in changes of oxygen consumption rates. Main findings of the glucose showed that the lowest glucose levels were found in the ambient temp - low dose and high temp - no dose treatments. Additionally, high temperature treatments with doses of ibuprofen were found to have a higher glucose level than their ambient temperature parallels. All experimental treatments showed to have less glucose levels than the control. Lastly, regarding the result for the control, it almost seems that as ibuprofen doses increased, glucose levels also seemed to increase.
